In this video, I
will tell you about
named entity recognition,
NER for short.
It's an important problem and
many NLP systems make
use of NER components.
Let me tell you what it is.
Named entity recognition is
a fast and efficient way to scan
text for certain
kinds of information.
NER systems locate and extract
named entities from text.
Named entities can
be anything from
a place to an organization
to a person's name.
They can even be
times and dates.
Let's discuss labels
used by NER systems in
a little more detail as they
relate to your programming
assignment this week.
Some possible classes
you might run across
include geographical
entities like Thailand,
organizations like Google,
or geopolitical
entities like Indian.
A few more classes
you might encounter
include time indicators
like the month of December,
artifacts like this
ancient Egyptian statue,
or a person such
as Barack Obama.
As you can see,
named entities can
capture and identify
all kinds of things.
Say you have the
following sentence;
Sharon flew to
Miami last Friday.
A named entity
recognition system would
extract and classify
Sharon as a personal name,
Miami as a geographical entity,
and Friday as a time indicator.
You'll notice that here,
B dash denotes an
entity of some kind,
and all the other words are
classified O, for a filler word.
You can probably already see how
useful this is for
content classification.
In a scenario where
you need to search
large amounts of texts
for certain words,
say Manhattan and Brooklyn,
or Toyota and Subaru,
this becomes handy very quickly.
Here are some
real-world applications
of named entity
recognition systems.
I mentioned their
ability to scan
documents for certain
things quickly.
Just imagine how NERs
can optimize search
engine efficiency.
In this case, the NER
model scans millions of
websites once and stores
the entities it's
identified in the process.
Then the tags from
your search query are
simply matched against
the website tags.
The same concept extends
to making recommendations,
where the tags might instead be
extracted from your
history and compare it
to similar user histories in
order to recommend things
you might want to check out.
This also applies to
matching customers
to an appropriate
customer service agent.
This works similarly
to a phone tree,
where you would be
prompted to provide
some information
about your request.
If you are using an app to
communicate with your
car insurance company,
you might provide some spoken or
typed information, such as,
I need to add another vehicle or
my car was destroyed by
a giant flying squirrel.
You'll then be matched to
the appropriate
agent accordingly.
Another interesting use
case is automatic trading.
For example, you could imagine
building a web scraper to get
news articles of the names of
certain CEOs, stocks,
or cryptocurrencies.
Then feeding those articles
into a sentiments
classification system,
and making your
trades accordingly.
NER systems have
many applications
in the field of deep learning.
I just gave you one potential
moneymaker for free.
Now you know what named
entity recognition is.
I think it's really
interesting to
see the many places
where it is used.
In the next video,
you will implement
your own NER system.